Welcome back everyone to part two of the capstone project we're going to be segmenting the hand in the
region of interest.
So the next step is Skewes thresholding actually grabbed the hands segment from the region of interest
basically at the end.
We want to have the white hand and then be able to calculate the contour around that against a black
background.
So let's create a function that can do this using thresholding and also using the fine contours function.
Let's get started.
OK we're going to begin by saying T.F. segment.
And we're going to pasan a frame and then a threshold value.
So in this case I'll use my threshold value as a minimum value.
Because using binary threshold.
And I'll set it to 25.
The pinning on how uniform the color and the overall shapes inside your region of interest background
is you may need to play around with that threshold value.
So leave it as a default 25 later on if you notice you're picking up too much noise from the background
in the region of interest.
You may want to edit that value.
All right.
The next step is to calculate the absolute difference between the background and the past and frame.
And we can do this with a built in function and open CV which is absolute difference.
Let's make sure A B S absolute F will pass in the background and in order for this function to work
it needs the background as integer type.
So just to make sure it's as type of say as type you in C a integer and then we'll pass and frame so
that grabs the absolute difference between the background and the past and frame.
And then we want to actually apply a threshold to this image.
So I'll say we get our t if it actually was threshold it or not.
And then the threshold that image is equal to CB2 threshold and then we're going to do here is passen
the absolute difference.
Image passing your minimum threshold value which in our case is just the threshold value chosen appear
and then pass that in loops.
Let's make sure we call CB2 that threshold there.
And I know we're kind of using some similar terms here so let me just clarify threshold did with edia
at the end.
That is the threshold that image CB2 the threshold is the open see we function.
Kukla a threshold this threshold right here that is the minimum value so that the max value can be 255.
And if you watch to make things clear you can say threshold men and say threshold men there.
So those are the values you can play around with.
Hopefully that clarifies things.
And then the actual type of thresholding we're going to be using is CB2 and we'll be calling a binary
threshold then once we have that we want to grab the external contours from the image.
So we'll say image contours hierarchy is equal to CB2 and we'll be using the fine contours function
that we're already familiar with.
We're going to pass the threshold at Image so threshold E.D. I'll pass on a copy of it so we don't mess
around with the original threshold that image and then we're actually just interested in the external
contours.
So I'll say CB2 r e t r underscore external.
And then for the third primer we're going to say CB2 and say chain underscore approx.
And if you want you can just tabulate this chain approx.
Simple as the method being used to calculate this.
And then once we have that we're going to have a little quick check we'll see if the length of the contours
is equal to zero.
That actually means we think Graveney contours.
So if that's the case we're just gonna return None.
Capital and none that we are functionals get messed up.
But if we are able to grab contours.
So given the way that we're using the program we're going to calculate is it the largest external contour.
Should that be the hand.
So if you try introducing your hand and then another object into the region of interest that could screw
up this actual function.
So again this is assuming the largest external contour in the R Y
is the hands which for our use case should pretty much be the case.
So it will say that the hand segments is equal to the maximum value in that list of contours and we
can pass on a key here because of the kind of strange formatting that contours is using not pi Ray.
You can say key is equal to to dot contour area.
And that's way of grabbing the contour of the largest amount the area.
And again the reason we're doing this is because you may be picking up small little bits of pieces of
noise which create little white spots in the background.
We want to make sure we aren't treating those as the main contour.
Really the main contour is just that large hand.
Then once you have that we're going to go ahead.
And at the end of this we'll return using tuple packing or turning the thresh hold it in the image and
then we'll say hand segments again returning this threshold that image right here and then we're turning
the head segment though it calculated right there.
OK.
So go ahead and run that.
And now you have a function that will segment the hand region in the frame by calculating the absolute
difference correctly in the threshold then grabbing the contours and then grabbing the largest contour
treating that hand segment and then passing back the threshold at Image and as well as the hand segment
which is essentially the contour for the hand.
Coming up next we're going to do is show you can count the fingers with the convex hole we'll see at
the next lecture.